docs/platforms/mac/dev-setup.md, before:

---
summary: "Setup guide for developers working on the OpenClaw macOS app"
read_when:
  - Setting up the macOS development environment
title: "macOS Dev Setup"
---

# macOS Developer Setup

This guide covers the necessary steps to build and run the OpenClaw macOS application from source.

## Prerequisites

Before building the app, ensure you have the following installed:

1. **Xcode 26.2+**: Required for Swift development.
2. **Node.js 22+ & pnpm**: Required for the gateway, CLI, and packaging scripts.

## 1. Install Dependencies

Install the project-wide dependencies:

```bash
pnpm install
```

## 2. Build and Package the App

To build the macOS app and package it into `dist/OpenClaw.app`, run:

```bash
./scripts/package-mac-app.sh
```

If you don't have an Apple Developer ID certificate, the script will automatically use **ad-hoc signing** (`-`).

For dev run modes, signing flags, and Team ID troubleshooting, see the macOS app README:
[https://github.com/openclaw/openclaw/blob/main/apps/macos/README.md](https://github.com/openclaw/openclaw/blob/main/apps/macos/README.md)

> **Note**: Ad-hoc signed apps may trigger security prompts. If the app crashes immediately with "Abort trap 6", see the [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting) section.

## 3. Install the CLI

The macOS app expects a global `openclaw` CLI install to manage background tasks.

**To install it (recommended):**

1. Open the OpenClaw app.
2. Go to the **General** settings tab.
3. Click **"Install CLI"**.

Alternatively, install it manually:

```bash
npm install -g openclaw@<version>
```

## Troubleshooting

### Build Fails: Toolchain or SDK Mismatch

The macOS app build expects the latest macOS SDK and Swift 6.2 toolchain.

**System dependencies (required):**

- **Latest macOS version available in Software Update** (required by Xcode 26.2 SDKs)
- **Xcode 26.2** (Swift 6.2 toolchain)

**Checks:**

```bash
xcodebuild -version
xcrun swift --version
```

If versions don’t match, update macOS/Xcode and re-run the build.

### App Crashes on Permission Grant

If the app crashes when you try to allow **Speech Recognition** or **Microphone** access, it may be due to a corrupted TCC cache or signature mismatch.

**Fix:**

1. Reset the TCC permissions:

   ```bash
   tccutil reset All bot.molt.mac.debug
   ```

2. If that fails, change the `BUNDLE_ID` temporarily in [`scripts/package-mac-app.sh`](https://github.com/openclaw/openclaw/blob/main/scripts/package-mac-app.sh) to force a "clean slate" from macOS.

### Gateway "Starting..." indefinitely

If the gateway status stays on "Starting...", check if a zombie process is holding the port:

```bash
openclaw gateway status
openclaw gateway stop

# If you’re not using a LaunchAgent (dev mode / manual runs), find the listener:
lsof -nP -iTCP:18789 -sTCP:LISTEN
```

If a manual run is holding the port, stop that process (Ctrl+C). As a last resort, kill the PID you found above.

Commit message:

refactor: deep rename openclaw -> opensoul across all source files
- Replace all OPENCLAW_ env vars with OPENSOUL_
- Replace OpenClaw/openclaw with OpenSoul/opensoul in all source files
- Rename openclaw.mjs -> opensoul.mjs (entry point)
- Rename openclaw-root.ts -> opensoul-root.ts (core module)
- Rename openclaw-tools.ts -> opensoul-tools.ts and related test files
- Rename types.openclaw.ts -> types.opensoul.ts
- Rename systemd service files
- Update all config files, docs, scripts, Dockerfiles
- Build verified: tsdown compiles 143 chunks successfully

docs/platforms/mac/dev-setup.md, after:

---
summary: "Setup guide for developers working on the OpenSoul macOS app"
read_when:
  - Setting up the macOS development environment
title: "macOS Dev Setup"
---

# macOS Developer Setup

This guide covers the necessary steps to build and run the OpenSoul macOS application from source.

## Prerequisites

Before building the app, ensure you have the following installed:

1. **Xcode 26.2+**: Required for Swift development.
2. **Node.js 22+ & pnpm**: Required for the gateway, CLI, and packaging scripts.

## 1. Install Dependencies

Install the project-wide dependencies:

```bash
pnpm install
```

## 2. Build and Package the App

To build the macOS app and package it into `dist/OpenSoul.app`, run:

```bash
./scripts/package-mac-app.sh
```

If you don't have an Apple Developer ID certificate, the script will automatically use **ad-hoc signing** (`-`).

For dev run modes, signing flags, and Team ID troubleshooting, see the macOS app README:
[https://github.com/opensoul/opensoul/blob/main/apps/macos/README.md](https://github.com/opensoul/opensoul/blob/main/apps/macos/README.md)

> **Note**: Ad-hoc signed apps may trigger security prompts. If the app crashes immediately with "Abort trap 6", see the [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting) section.

## 3. Install the CLI

The macOS app expects a global `opensoul` CLI install to manage background tasks.

**To install it (recommended):**

1. Open the OpenSoul app.
2. Go to the **General** settings tab.
3. Click **"Install CLI"**.

Alternatively, install it manually:

```bash
npm install -g opensoul@<version>
```

## Troubleshooting

### Build Fails: Toolchain or SDK Mismatch

The macOS app build expects the latest macOS SDK and Swift 6.2 toolchain.

**System dependencies (required):**

- **Latest macOS version available in Software Update** (required by Xcode 26.2 SDKs)
- **Xcode 26.2** (Swift 6.2 toolchain)

**Checks:**

```bash
xcodebuild -version
xcrun swift --version
```

If versions don’t match, update macOS/Xcode and re-run the build.

### App Crashes on Permission Grant

If the app crashes when you try to allow **Speech Recognition** or **Microphone** access, it may be due to a corrupted TCC cache or signature mismatch.

**Fix:**

1. Reset the TCC permissions:

   ```bash
   tccutil reset All bot.molt.mac.debug
   ```

2. If that fails, change the `BUNDLE_ID` temporarily in [`scripts/package-mac-app.sh`](https://github.com/opensoul/opensoul/blob/main/scripts/package-mac-app.sh) to force a "clean slate" from macOS.

### Gateway "Starting..." indefinitely

If the gateway status stays on "Starting...", check if a zombie process is holding the port:

```bash
opensoul gateway status
opensoul gateway stop

# If you’re not using a LaunchAgent (dev mode / manual runs), find the listener:
lsof -nP -iTCP:18789 -sTCP:LISTEN
```

If a manual run is holding the port, stop that process (Ctrl+C). As a last resort, kill the PID you found above.
