docs/channels/group-messages.md, before:

---
summary: "Behavior and config for WhatsApp group message handling (mentionPatterns are shared across surfaces)"
read_when:
  - Changing group message rules or mentions
title: "Group Messages"
---

# Group messages (WhatsApp web channel)

Goal: let Clawd sit in WhatsApp groups, wake up only when pinged, and keep that thread separate from the personal DM session.

Note: `agents.list[].groupChat.mentionPatterns` is now used by Telegram/Discord/Slack/iMessage as well; this doc focuses on WhatsApp-specific behavior. For multi-agent setups, set `agents.list[].groupChat.mentionPatterns` per agent (or use `messages.groupChat.mentionPatterns` as a global fallback).

## What’s implemented (2025-12-03)

- Activation modes: `mention` (default) or `always`. `mention` requires a ping (real WhatsApp @-mentions via `mentionedJids`, regex patterns, or the bot’s E.164 anywhere in the text). `always` wakes the agent on every message but it should reply only when it can add meaningful value; otherwise it returns the silent token `NO_REPLY`. Defaults can be set in config (`channels.whatsapp.groups`) and overridden per group via `/activation`. When `channels.whatsapp.groups` is set, it also acts as a group allowlist (include `"*"` to allow all).
- Group policy: `channels.whatsapp.groupPolicy` controls whether group messages are accepted (`open|disabled|allowlist`). `allowlist` uses `channels.whatsapp.groupAllowFrom` (fallback: explicit `channels.whatsapp.allowFrom`). Default is `allowlist` (blocked until you add senders).
- Per-group sessions: session keys look like `agent:<agentId>:whatsapp:group:<jid>` so commands such as `/verbose on` or `/think high` (sent as standalone messages) are scoped to that group; personal DM state is untouched. Heartbeats are skipped for group threads.
- Context injection: **pending-only** group messages (default 50) that _did not_ trigger a run are prefixed under `[Chat messages since your last reply - for context]`, with the triggering line under `[Current message - respond to this]`. Messages already in the session are not re-injected.
- Sender surfacing: every group batch now ends with `[from: Sender Name (+E164)]` so Pi knows who is speaking.
- Ephemeral/view-once: we unwrap those before extracting text/mentions, so pings inside them still trigger.
- Group system prompt: on the first turn of a group session (and whenever `/activation` changes the mode) we inject a short blurb into the system prompt like `You are replying inside the WhatsApp group "<subject>". Group members: Alice (+44...), Bob (+43...), … Activation: trigger-only … Address the specific sender noted in the message context.` If metadata isn’t available we still tell the agent it’s a group chat.

## Config example (WhatsApp)

Add a `groupChat` block to `~/.openclaw/openclaw.json` so display-name pings work even when WhatsApp strips the visual `@` in the text body:

```json5
{
  channels: {
    whatsapp: {
      groups: {
        "*": { requireMention: true },
      },
    },
  },
  agents: {
    list: [
      {
        id: "main",
        groupChat: {
          historyLimit: 50,
          mentionPatterns: ["@?openclaw", "\\+?15555550123"],
        },
      },
    ],
  },
}
```

Notes:

- The regexes are case-insensitive; they cover a display-name ping like `@openclaw` and the raw number with or without `+`/spaces.
- WhatsApp still sends canonical mentions via `mentionedJids` when someone taps the contact, so the number fallback is rarely needed but is a useful safety net.

### Activation command (owner-only)

Use the group chat command:

- `/activation mention`
- `/activation always`

Only the owner number (from `channels.whatsapp.allowFrom`, or the bot’s own E.164 when unset) can change this. Send `/status` as a standalone message in the group to see the current activation mode.

## How to use

1. Add your WhatsApp account (the one running OpenClaw) to the group.
2. Say `@openclaw …` (or include the number). Only allowlisted senders can trigger it unless you set `groupPolicy: "open"`.
3. The agent prompt will include recent group context plus the trailing `[from: …]` marker so it can address the right person.
4. Session-level directives (`/verbose on`, `/think high`, `/new` or `/reset`, `/compact`) apply only to that group’s session; send them as standalone messages so they register. Your personal DM session remains independent.

## Testing / verification

- Manual smoke:
  - Send an `@openclaw` ping in the group and confirm a reply that references the sender name.
  - Send a second ping and verify the history block is included then cleared on the next turn.
- Check gateway logs (run with `--verbose`) to see `inbound web message` entries showing `from: <groupJid>` and the `[from: …]` suffix.

## Known considerations

- Heartbeats are intentionally skipped for groups to avoid noisy broadcasts.
- Echo suppression uses the combined batch string; if you send identical text twice without mentions, only the first will get a response.
- Session store entries will appear as `agent:<agentId>:whatsapp:group:<jid>` in the session store (`~/.openclaw/agents/<agentId>/sessions/sessions.json` by default); a missing entry just means the group hasn’t triggered a run yet.
- Typing indicators in groups follow `agents.defaults.typingMode` (default: `message` when unmentioned).

Commit message:

refactor: deep rename openclaw -> opensoul across all source files
- Replace all OPENCLAW_ env vars with OPENSOUL_
- Replace OpenClaw/openclaw with OpenSoul/opensoul in all source files
- Rename openclaw.mjs -> opensoul.mjs (entry point)
- Rename openclaw-root.ts -> opensoul-root.ts (core module)
- Rename openclaw-tools.ts -> opensoul-tools.ts and related test files
- Rename types.openclaw.ts -> types.opensoul.ts
- Rename systemd service files
- Update all config files, docs, scripts, Dockerfiles
- Build verified: tsdown compiles 143 chunks successfully

docs/channels/group-messages.md, after:

---
summary: "Behavior and config for WhatsApp group message handling (mentionPatterns are shared across surfaces)"
read_when:
  - Changing group message rules or mentions
title: "Group Messages"
---

# Group messages (WhatsApp web channel)

Goal: let Clawd sit in WhatsApp groups, wake up only when pinged, and keep that thread separate from the personal DM session.

Note: `agents.list[].groupChat.mentionPatterns` is now used by Telegram/Discord/Slack/iMessage as well; this doc focuses on WhatsApp-specific behavior. For multi-agent setups, set `agents.list[].groupChat.mentionPatterns` per agent (or use `messages.groupChat.mentionPatterns` as a global fallback).

## What’s implemented (2025-12-03)

- Activation modes: `mention` (default) or `always`. `mention` requires a ping (real WhatsApp @-mentions via `mentionedJids`, regex patterns, or the bot’s E.164 anywhere in the text). `always` wakes the agent on every message but it should reply only when it can add meaningful value; otherwise it returns the silent token `NO_REPLY`. Defaults can be set in config (`channels.whatsapp.groups`) and overridden per group via `/activation`. When `channels.whatsapp.groups` is set, it also acts as a group allowlist (include `"*"` to allow all).
- Group policy: `channels.whatsapp.groupPolicy` controls whether group messages are accepted (`open|disabled|allowlist`). `allowlist` uses `channels.whatsapp.groupAllowFrom` (fallback: explicit `channels.whatsapp.allowFrom`). Default is `allowlist` (blocked until you add senders).
- Per-group sessions: session keys look like `agent:<agentId>:whatsapp:group:<jid>` so commands such as `/verbose on` or `/think high` (sent as standalone messages) are scoped to that group; personal DM state is untouched. Heartbeats are skipped for group threads.
- Context injection: **pending-only** group messages (default 50) that _did not_ trigger a run are prefixed under `[Chat messages since your last reply - for context]`, with the triggering line under `[Current message - respond to this]`. Messages already in the session are not re-injected.
- Sender surfacing: every group batch now ends with `[from: Sender Name (+E164)]` so Pi knows who is speaking.
- Ephemeral/view-once: we unwrap those before extracting text/mentions, so pings inside them still trigger.
- Group system prompt: on the first turn of a group session (and whenever `/activation` changes the mode) we inject a short blurb into the system prompt like `You are replying inside the WhatsApp group "<subject>". Group members: Alice (+44...), Bob (+43...), … Activation: trigger-only … Address the specific sender noted in the message context.` If metadata isn’t available we still tell the agent it’s a group chat.

## Config example (WhatsApp)

Add a `groupChat` block to `~/.opensoul/opensoul.json` so display-name pings work even when WhatsApp strips the visual `@` in the text body:

```json5
{
  channels: {
    whatsapp: {
      groups: {
        "*": { requireMention: true },
      },
    },
  },
  agents: {
    list: [
      {
        id: "main",
        groupChat: {
          historyLimit: 50,
          mentionPatterns: ["@?opensoul", "\\+?15555550123"],
        },
      },
    ],
  },
}
```

Notes:

- The regexes are case-insensitive; they cover a display-name ping like `@opensoul` and the raw number with or without `+`/spaces.
- WhatsApp still sends canonical mentions via `mentionedJids` when someone taps the contact, so the number fallback is rarely needed but is a useful safety net.

### Activation command (owner-only)

Use the group chat command:

- `/activation mention`
- `/activation always`

Only the owner number (from `channels.whatsapp.allowFrom`, or the bot’s own E.164 when unset) can change this. Send `/status` as a standalone message in the group to see the current activation mode.

## How to use

1. Add your WhatsApp account (the one running OpenSoul) to the group.
2. Say `@opensoul …` (or include the number). Only allowlisted senders can trigger it unless you set `groupPolicy: "open"`.
3. The agent prompt will include recent group context plus the trailing `[from: …]` marker so it can address the right person.
4. Session-level directives (`/verbose on`, `/think high`, `/new` or `/reset`, `/compact`) apply only to that group’s session; send them as standalone messages so they register. Your personal DM session remains independent.

## Testing / verification

- Manual smoke:
  - Send an `@opensoul` ping in the group and confirm a reply that references the sender name.
  - Send a second ping and verify the history block is included then cleared on the next turn.
- Check gateway logs (run with `--verbose`) to see `inbound web message` entries showing `from: <groupJid>` and the `[from: …]` suffix.

## Known considerations

- Heartbeats are intentionally skipped for groups to avoid noisy broadcasts.
- Echo suppression uses the combined batch string; if you send identical text twice without mentions, only the first will get a response.
- Session store entries will appear as `agent:<agentId>:whatsapp:group:<jid>` in the session store (`~/.opensoul/agents/<agentId>/sessions/sessions.json` by default); a missing entry just means the group hasn’t triggered a run yet.
- Typing indicators in groups follow `agents.defaults.typingMode` (default: `message` when unmentioned).
