extensions/llm-task/README.md, before:

# LLM Task (plugin)

Adds an **optional** agent tool `llm-task` for running **JSON-only** LLM tasks
(drafting, summarizing, classifying) with optional JSON Schema validation.

Designed to be called from workflow engines (for example, Lobster via
`openclaw.invoke --each`) without adding new OpenClaw code per workflow.

## Enable

1. Enable the plugin:

```json
{
  "plugins": {
    "entries": {
      "llm-task": { "enabled": true }
    }
  }
}
```

2. Allowlist the tool (it is registered with `optional: true`):

```json
{
  "agents": {
    "list": [
      {
        "id": "main",
        "tools": { "allow": ["llm-task"] }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

## Config (optional)

```json
{
  "plugins": {
    "entries": {
      "llm-task": {
        "enabled": true,
        "config": {
          "defaultProvider": "openai-codex",
          "defaultModel": "gpt-5.2",
          "defaultAuthProfileId": "main",
          "allowedModels": ["openai-codex/gpt-5.2"],
          "maxTokens": 800,
          "timeoutMs": 30000
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

`allowedModels` is an allowlist of `provider/model` strings. If set, any request
outside the list is rejected.

## Tool API

### Parameters

- `prompt` (string, required)
- `input` (any, optional)
- `schema` (object, optional JSON Schema)
- `provider` (string, optional)
- `model` (string, optional)
- `authProfileId` (string, optional)
- `temperature` (number, optional)
- `maxTokens` (number, optional)
- `timeoutMs` (number, optional)

### Output

Returns `details.json` containing the parsed JSON (and validates against
`schema` when provided).

## Notes

- The tool is **JSON-only** and instructs the model to output only JSON
  (no code fences, no commentary).
- No tools are exposed to the model for this run.
- Side effects should be handled outside this tool (for example, approvals in
  Lobster) before calling tools that send messages/emails.

## Bundled extension note

This extension depends on OpenClaw internal modules (the embedded agent runner).
It is intended to ship as a **bundled** OpenClaw extension (like `lobster`) and
be enabled via `plugins.entries` + tool allowlists.

It is **not** currently designed to be copied into
`~/.openclaw/extensions` as a standalone plugin directory.

Commit message:

refactor: deep rename openclaw -> opensoul across all source files
- Replace all OPENCLAW_ env vars with OPENSOUL_
- Replace OpenClaw/openclaw with OpenSoul/opensoul in all source files
- Rename openclaw.mjs -> opensoul.mjs (entry point)
- Rename openclaw-root.ts -> opensoul-root.ts (core module)
- Rename openclaw-tools.ts -> opensoul-tools.ts and related test files
- Rename types.openclaw.ts -> types.opensoul.ts
- Rename systemd service files
- Update all config files, docs, scripts, Dockerfiles
- Build verified: tsdown compiles 143 chunks successfully

extensions/llm-task/README.md, after:

# LLM Task (plugin)

Adds an **optional** agent tool `llm-task` for running **JSON-only** LLM tasks
(drafting, summarizing, classifying) with optional JSON Schema validation.

Designed to be called from workflow engines (for example, Lobster via
`opensoul.invoke --each`) without adding new OpenSoul code per workflow.

## Enable

1. Enable the plugin:

```json
{
  "plugins": {
    "entries": {
      "llm-task": { "enabled": true }
    }
  }
}
```

2. Allowlist the tool (it is registered with `optional: true`):

```json
{
  "agents": {
    "list": [
      {
        "id": "main",
        "tools": { "allow": ["llm-task"] }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

## Config (optional)

```json
{
  "plugins": {
    "entries": {
      "llm-task": {
        "enabled": true,
        "config": {
          "defaultProvider": "openai-codex",
          "defaultModel": "gpt-5.2",
          "defaultAuthProfileId": "main",
          "allowedModels": ["openai-codex/gpt-5.2"],
          "maxTokens": 800,
          "timeoutMs": 30000
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

`allowedModels` is an allowlist of `provider/model` strings. If set, any request
outside the list is rejected.

## Tool API

### Parameters

- `prompt` (string, required)
- `input` (any, optional)
- `schema` (object, optional JSON Schema)
- `provider` (string, optional)
- `model` (string, optional)
- `authProfileId` (string, optional)
- `temperature` (number, optional)
- `maxTokens` (number, optional)
- `timeoutMs` (number, optional)

### Output

Returns `details.json` containing the parsed JSON (and validates against
`schema` when provided).

## Notes

- The tool is **JSON-only** and instructs the model to output only JSON
  (no code fences, no commentary).
- No tools are exposed to the model for this run.
- Side effects should be handled outside this tool (for example, approvals in
  Lobster) before calling tools that send messages/emails.

## Bundled extension note

This extension depends on OpenSoul internal modules (the embedded agent runner).
It is intended to ship as a **bundled** OpenSoul extension (like `lobster`) and
be enabled via `plugins.entries` + tool allowlists.

It is **not** currently designed to be copied into
`~/.opensoul/extensions` as a standalone plugin directory.
