docs/install/exe-dev.md, before:

---
summary: "Run OpenClaw Gateway on exe.dev (VM + HTTPS proxy) for remote access"
read_when:
  - You want a cheap always-on Linux host for the Gateway
  - You want remote Control UI access without running your own VPS
title: "exe.dev"
---

# exe.dev

Goal: OpenClaw Gateway running on an exe.dev VM, reachable from your laptop via: `https://<vm-name>.exe.xyz`

This page assumes exe.dev's default **exeuntu** image. If you picked a different distro, map packages accordingly.

## Beginner quick path

1. [https://exe.new/openclaw](https://exe.new/openclaw)
2. Fill in your auth key/token as needed
3. Click on "Agent" next to your VM, and wait...
4. ???
5. Profit

## What you need

- exe.dev account
- `ssh exe.dev` access to [exe.dev](https://exe.dev) virtual machines (optional)

## Automated Install with Shelley

Shelley, [exe.dev](https://exe.dev)'s agent, can install OpenClaw instantly with our
prompt. The prompt used is as below:

```
Set up OpenClaw (https://docs.openclaw.ai/install) on this VM. Use the non-interactive and accept-risk flags for openclaw onboarding. Add the supplied auth or token as needed. Configure nginx to forward from the default port 18789 to the root location on the default enabled site config, making sure to enable Websocket support. Pairing is done by "openclaw devices list" and "openclaw device approve <request id>". Make sure the dashboard shows that OpenClaw's health is OK. exe.dev handles forwarding from port 8000 to port 80/443 and HTTPS for us, so the final "reachable" should be <vm-name>.exe.xyz, without port specification.
```

## Manual installation

## 1) Create the VM

From your device:

```bash
ssh exe.dev new
```

Then connect:

```bash
ssh <vm-name>.exe.xyz
```

Tip: keep this VM **stateful**. OpenClaw stores state under `~/.openclaw/` and `~/.openclaw/workspace/`.

## 2) Install prerequisites (on the VM)

```bash
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install -y git curl jq ca-certificates openssl
```

## 3) Install OpenClaw

Run the OpenClaw install script:

```bash
curl -fsSL https://openclaw.ai/install.sh | bash
```

## 4) Setup nginx to proxy OpenClaw to port 8000

Edit `/etc/nginx/sites-enabled/default` with

```
server {
    listen 80 default_server;
    listen [::]:80 default_server;
    listen 8000;
    listen [::]:8000;

    server_name _;

    location / {
        proxy_pass http://127.0.0.1:18789;
        proxy_http_version 1.1;

        # WebSocket support
        proxy_set_header Upgrade $http_upgrade;
        proxy_set_header Connection "upgrade";

        # Standard proxy headers
        proxy_set_header Host $host;
        proxy_set_header X-Real-IP $remote_addr;
        proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-For $proxy_add_x_forwarded_for;
        proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-Proto $scheme;

        # Timeout settings for long-lived connections
        proxy_read_timeout 86400s;
        proxy_send_timeout 86400s;
    }
}
```

## 5) Access OpenClaw and grant privileges

Access `https://<vm-name>.exe.xyz/` (see the Control UI output from onboarding). If it prompts for auth, paste the
token from `gateway.auth.token` on the VM (retrieve with `openclaw config get gateway.auth.token`, or generate one
with `openclaw doctor --generate-gateway-token`). Approve devices with `openclaw devices list` and
`openclaw devices approve <requestId>`. When in doubt, use Shelley from your browser!

## Remote Access

Remote access is handled by [exe.dev](https://exe.dev)'s authentication. By
default, HTTP traffic from port 8000 is forwarded to `https://<vm-name>.exe.xyz`
with email auth.

## Updating

```bash
npm i -g openclaw@latest
openclaw doctor
openclaw gateway restart
openclaw health
```

Guide: [Updating](/install/updating)

Commit message:

refactor: deep rename openclaw -> opensoul across all source files
- Replace all OPENCLAW_ env vars with OPENSOUL_
- Replace OpenClaw/openclaw with OpenSoul/opensoul in all source files
- Rename openclaw.mjs -> opensoul.mjs (entry point)
- Rename openclaw-root.ts -> opensoul-root.ts (core module)
- Rename openclaw-tools.ts -> opensoul-tools.ts and related test files
- Rename types.openclaw.ts -> types.opensoul.ts
- Rename systemd service files
- Update all config files, docs, scripts, Dockerfiles
- Build verified: tsdown compiles 143 chunks successfully

docs/install/exe-dev.md, after:

---
summary: "Run OpenSoul Gateway on exe.dev (VM + HTTPS proxy) for remote access"
read_when:
  - You want a cheap always-on Linux host for the Gateway
  - You want remote Control UI access without running your own VPS
title: "exe.dev"
---

# exe.dev

Goal: OpenSoul Gateway running on an exe.dev VM, reachable from your laptop via: `https://<vm-name>.exe.xyz`

This page assumes exe.dev's default **exeuntu** image. If you picked a different distro, map packages accordingly.

## Beginner quick path

1. [https://exe.new/opensoul](https://exe.new/opensoul)
2. Fill in your auth key/token as needed
3. Click on "Agent" next to your VM, and wait...
4. ???
5. Profit

## What you need

- exe.dev account
- `ssh exe.dev` access to [exe.dev](https://exe.dev) virtual machines (optional)

## Automated Install with Shelley

Shelley, [exe.dev](https://exe.dev)'s agent, can install OpenSoul instantly with our
prompt. The prompt used is as below:

```
Set up OpenSoul (https://docs.opensoul.ai/install) on this VM. Use the non-interactive and accept-risk flags for opensoul onboarding. Add the supplied auth or token as needed. Configure nginx to forward from the default port 18789 to the root location on the default enabled site config, making sure to enable Websocket support. Pairing is done by "opensoul devices list" and "opensoul device approve <request id>". Make sure the dashboard shows that OpenSoul's health is OK. exe.dev handles forwarding from port 8000 to port 80/443 and HTTPS for us, so the final "reachable" should be <vm-name>.exe.xyz, without port specification.
```

## Manual installation

## 1) Create the VM

From your device:

```bash
ssh exe.dev new
```

Then connect:

```bash
ssh <vm-name>.exe.xyz
```

Tip: keep this VM **stateful**. OpenSoul stores state under `~/.opensoul/` and `~/.opensoul/workspace/`.

## 2) Install prerequisites (on the VM)

```bash
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install -y git curl jq ca-certificates openssl
```

## 3) Install OpenSoul

Run the OpenSoul install script:

```bash
curl -fsSL https://opensoul.ai/install.sh | bash
```

## 4) Setup nginx to proxy OpenSoul to port 8000

Edit `/etc/nginx/sites-enabled/default` with

```
server {
    listen 80 default_server;
    listen [::]:80 default_server;
    listen 8000;
    listen [::]:8000;

    server_name _;

    location / {
        proxy_pass http://127.0.0.1:18789;
        proxy_http_version 1.1;

        # WebSocket support
        proxy_set_header Upgrade $http_upgrade;
        proxy_set_header Connection "upgrade";

        # Standard proxy headers
        proxy_set_header Host $host;
        proxy_set_header X-Real-IP $remote_addr;
        proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-For $proxy_add_x_forwarded_for;
        proxy_set_header X-Forwarded-Proto $scheme;

        # Timeout settings for long-lived connections
        proxy_read_timeout 86400s;
        proxy_send_timeout 86400s;
    }
}
```

## 5) Access OpenSoul and grant privileges

Access `https://<vm-name>.exe.xyz/` (see the Control UI output from onboarding). If it prompts for auth, paste the
token from `gateway.auth.token` on the VM (retrieve with `opensoul config get gateway.auth.token`, or generate one
with `opensoul doctor --generate-gateway-token`). Approve devices with `opensoul devices list` and
`opensoul devices approve <requestId>`. When in doubt, use Shelley from your browser!

## Remote Access

Remote access is handled by [exe.dev](https://exe.dev)'s authentication. By
default, HTTP traffic from port 8000 is forwarded to `https://<vm-name>.exe.xyz`
with email auth.

## Updating

```bash
npm i -g opensoul@latest
opensoul doctor
opensoul gateway restart
opensoul health
```

Guide: [Updating](/install/updating)
