docs/install/nix.md, before:

---
summary: "Install OpenClaw declaratively with Nix"
read_when:
  - You want reproducible, rollback-able installs
  - You're already using Nix/NixOS/Home Manager
  - You want everything pinned and managed declaratively
title: "Nix"
---

# Nix Installation

The recommended way to run OpenClaw with Nix is via **[nix-openclaw](https://github.com/openclaw/nix-openclaw)** — a batteries-included Home Manager module.

## Quick Start

Paste this to your AI agent (Claude, Cursor, etc.):

```text
I want to set up nix-openclaw on my Mac.
Repository: github:openclaw/nix-openclaw

What I need you to do:
1. Check if Determinate Nix is installed (if not, install it)
2. Create a local flake at ~/code/openclaw-local using templates/agent-first/flake.nix
3. Help me create a Telegram bot (@BotFather) and get my chat ID (@userinfobot)
4. Set up secrets (bot token, Anthropic key) - plain files at ~/.secrets/ is fine
5. Fill in the template placeholders and run home-manager switch
6. Verify: launchd running, bot responds to messages

Reference the nix-openclaw README for module options.
```

> **📦 Full guide: [github.com/openclaw/nix-openclaw](https://github.com/openclaw/nix-openclaw)**
>
> The nix-openclaw repo is the source of truth for Nix installation. This page is just a quick overview.

## What you get

- Gateway + macOS app + tools (whisper, spotify, cameras) — all pinned
- Launchd service that survives reboots
- Plugin system with declarative config
- Instant rollback: `home-manager switch --rollback`

---

## Nix Mode Runtime Behavior

When `OPENCLAW_NIX_MODE=1` is set (automatic with nix-openclaw):

OpenClaw supports a **Nix mode** that makes configuration deterministic and disables auto-install flows.
Enable it by exporting:

```bash
OPENCLAW_NIX_MODE=1
```

On macOS, the GUI app does not automatically inherit shell env vars. You can
also enable Nix mode via defaults:

```bash
defaults write bot.molt.mac openclaw.nixMode -bool true
```

### Config + state paths

OpenClaw reads JSON5 config from `OPENCLAW_CONFIG_PATH` and stores mutable data in `OPENCLAW_STATE_DIR`.

- `OPENCLAW_STATE_DIR` (default: `~/.openclaw`)
- `OPENCLAW_CONFIG_PATH` (default: `$OPENCLAW_STATE_DIR/openclaw.json`)

When running under Nix, set these explicitly to Nix-managed locations so runtime state and config
stay out of the immutable store.

### Runtime behavior in Nix mode

- Auto-install and self-mutation flows are disabled
- Missing dependencies surface Nix-specific remediation messages
- UI surfaces a read-only Nix mode banner when present

## Packaging note (macOS)

The macOS packaging flow expects a stable Info.plist template at:

```
apps/macos/Sources/OpenClaw/Resources/Info.plist
```

[`scripts/package-mac-app.sh`](https://github.com/openclaw/openclaw/blob/main/scripts/package-mac-app.sh) copies this template into the app bundle and patches dynamic fields
(bundle ID, version/build, Git SHA, Sparkle keys). This keeps the plist deterministic for SwiftPM
packaging and Nix builds (which do not rely on a full Xcode toolchain).

## Related

- [nix-openclaw](https://github.com/openclaw/nix-openclaw) — full setup guide
- [Wizard](/start/wizard) — non-Nix CLI setup
- [Docker](/install/docker) — containerized setup

Commit message:

refactor: deep rename openclaw -> opensoul across all source files
- Replace all OPENCLAW_ env vars with OPENSOUL_
- Replace OpenClaw/openclaw with OpenSoul/opensoul in all source files
- Rename openclaw.mjs -> opensoul.mjs (entry point)
- Rename openclaw-root.ts -> opensoul-root.ts (core module)
- Rename openclaw-tools.ts -> opensoul-tools.ts and related test files
- Rename types.openclaw.ts -> types.opensoul.ts
- Rename systemd service files
- Update all config files, docs, scripts, Dockerfiles
- Build verified: tsdown compiles 143 chunks successfully

docs/install/nix.md, after:

---
summary: "Install OpenSoul declaratively with Nix"
read_when:
  - You want reproducible, rollback-able installs
  - You're already using Nix/NixOS/Home Manager
  - You want everything pinned and managed declaratively
title: "Nix"
---

# Nix Installation

The recommended way to run OpenSoul with Nix is via **[nix-opensoul](https://github.com/opensoul/nix-opensoul)** — a batteries-included Home Manager module.

## Quick Start

Paste this to your AI agent (Claude, Cursor, etc.):

```text
I want to set up nix-opensoul on my Mac.
Repository: github:opensoul/nix-opensoul

What I need you to do:
1. Check if Determinate Nix is installed (if not, install it)
2. Create a local flake at ~/code/opensoul-local using templates/agent-first/flake.nix
3. Help me create a Telegram bot (@BotFather) and get my chat ID (@userinfobot)
4. Set up secrets (bot token, Anthropic key) - plain files at ~/.secrets/ is fine
5. Fill in the template placeholders and run home-manager switch
6. Verify: launchd running, bot responds to messages

Reference the nix-opensoul README for module options.
```

> **📦 Full guide: [github.com/opensoul/nix-opensoul](https://github.com/opensoul/nix-opensoul)**
>
> The nix-opensoul repo is the source of truth for Nix installation. This page is just a quick overview.

## What you get

- Gateway + macOS app + tools (whisper, spotify, cameras) — all pinned
- Launchd service that survives reboots
- Plugin system with declarative config
- Instant rollback: `home-manager switch --rollback`

---

## Nix Mode Runtime Behavior

When `OPENSOUL_NIX_MODE=1` is set (automatic with nix-opensoul):

OpenSoul supports a **Nix mode** that makes configuration deterministic and disables auto-install flows.
Enable it by exporting:

```bash
OPENSOUL_NIX_MODE=1
```

On macOS, the GUI app does not automatically inherit shell env vars. You can
also enable Nix mode via defaults:

```bash
defaults write bot.molt.mac opensoul.nixMode -bool true
```

### Config + state paths

OpenSoul reads JSON5 config from `OPENSOUL_CONFIG_PATH` and stores mutable data in `OPENSOUL_STATE_DIR`.

- `OPENSOUL_STATE_DIR` (default: `~/.opensoul`)
- `OPENSOUL_CONFIG_PATH` (default: `$OPENSOUL_STATE_DIR/opensoul.json`)

When running under Nix, set these explicitly to Nix-managed locations so runtime state and config
stay out of the immutable store.

### Runtime behavior in Nix mode

- Auto-install and self-mutation flows are disabled
- Missing dependencies surface Nix-specific remediation messages
- UI surfaces a read-only Nix mode banner when present

## Packaging note (macOS)

The macOS packaging flow expects a stable Info.plist template at:

```
apps/macos/Sources/OpenSoul/Resources/Info.plist
```

[`scripts/package-mac-app.sh`](https://github.com/opensoul/opensoul/blob/main/scripts/package-mac-app.sh) copies this template into the app bundle and patches dynamic fields
(bundle ID, version/build, Git SHA, Sparkle keys). This keeps the plist deterministic for SwiftPM
packaging and Nix builds (which do not rely on a full Xcode toolchain).

## Related

- [nix-opensoul](https://github.com/opensoul/nix-opensoul) — full setup guide
- [Wizard](/start/wizard) — non-Nix CLI setup
- [Docker](/install/docker) — containerized setup
