docs/start/wizard.md, before:

---
summary: "CLI onboarding wizard: guided setup for gateway, workspace, channels, and skills"
read_when:
  - Running or configuring the onboarding wizard
  - Setting up a new machine
title: "Onboarding Wizard (CLI)"
sidebarTitle: "Onboarding: CLI"
---

# Onboarding Wizard (CLI)

The onboarding wizard is the **recommended** way to set up OpenClaw on macOS,
Linux, or Windows (via WSL2; strongly recommended).
It configures a local Gateway or a remote Gateway connection, plus channels, skills,
and workspace defaults in one guided flow.

```bash
openclaw onboard
```

<Info>
Fastest first chat: open the Control UI (no channel setup needed). Run
`openclaw dashboard` and chat in the browser. Docs: [Dashboard](/web/dashboard).
</Info>

To reconfigure later:

```bash
openclaw configure
openclaw agents add <name>
```

<Note>
`--json` does not imply non-interactive mode. For scripts, use `--non-interactive`.
</Note>

<Tip>
Recommended: set up a Brave Search API key so the agent can use `web_search`
(`web_fetch` works without a key). Easiest path: `openclaw configure --section web`
which stores `tools.web.search.apiKey`. Docs: [Web tools](/tools/web).
</Tip>

## QuickStart vs Advanced

The wizard starts with **QuickStart** (defaults) vs **Advanced** (full control).

<Tabs>
  <Tab title="QuickStart (defaults)">
    - Local gateway (loopback)
    - Workspace default (or existing workspace)
    - Gateway port **18789**
    - Gateway auth **Token** (auto‑generated, even on loopback)
    - Tailscale exposure **Off**
    - Telegram + WhatsApp DMs default to **allowlist** (you'll be prompted for your phone number)
  </Tab>
  <Tab title="Advanced (full control)">
    - Exposes every step (mode, workspace, gateway, channels, daemon, skills).
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

## What the wizard configures

**Local mode (default)** walks you through these steps:

1. **Model/Auth** — Anthropic API key (recommended), OAuth, OpenAI, or other providers. Pick a default model.
2. **Workspace** — Location for agent files (default `~/.openclaw/workspace`). Seeds bootstrap files.
3. **Gateway** — Port, bind address, auth mode, Tailscale exposure.
4. **Channels** — WhatsApp, Telegram, Discord, Google Chat, Mattermost, Signal, BlueBubbles, or iMessage.
5. **Daemon** — Installs a LaunchAgent (macOS) or systemd user unit (Linux/WSL2).
6. **Health check** — Starts the Gateway and verifies it's running.
7. **Skills** — Installs recommended skills and optional dependencies.

<Note>
Re-running the wizard does **not** wipe anything unless you explicitly choose **Reset** (or pass `--reset`).
If the config is invalid or contains legacy keys, the wizard asks you to run `openclaw doctor` first.
</Note>

**Remote mode** only configures the local client to connect to a Gateway elsewhere.
It does **not** install or change anything on the remote host.

## Add another agent

Use `openclaw agents add <name>` to create a separate agent with its own workspace,
sessions, and auth profiles. Running without `--workspace` launches the wizard.

What it sets:

- `agents.list[].name`
- `agents.list[].workspace`
- `agents.list[].agentDir`

Notes:

- Default workspaces follow `~/.openclaw/workspace-<agentId>`.
- Add `bindings` to route inbound messages (the wizard can do this).
- Non-interactive flags: `--model`, `--agent-dir`, `--bind`, `--non-interactive`.

## Full reference

For detailed step-by-step breakdowns, non-interactive scripting, Signal setup,
RPC API, and a full list of config fields the wizard writes, see the
[Wizard Reference](/reference/wizard).

## Related docs

- CLI command reference: [`openclaw onboard`](/cli/onboard)
- macOS app onboarding: [Onboarding](/start/onboarding)
- Agent first-run ritual: [Agent Bootstrapping](/start/bootstrapping)

Commit message:

refactor: deep rename openclaw -> opensoul across all source files
- Replace all OPENCLAW_ env vars with OPENSOUL_
- Replace OpenClaw/openclaw with OpenSoul/opensoul in all source files
- Rename openclaw.mjs -> opensoul.mjs (entry point)
- Rename openclaw-root.ts -> opensoul-root.ts (core module)
- Rename openclaw-tools.ts -> opensoul-tools.ts and related test files
- Rename types.openclaw.ts -> types.opensoul.ts
- Rename systemd service files
- Update all config files, docs, scripts, Dockerfiles
- Build verified: tsdown compiles 143 chunks successfully

docs/start/wizard.md, after:

---
summary: "CLI onboarding wizard: guided setup for gateway, workspace, channels, and skills"
read_when:
  - Running or configuring the onboarding wizard
  - Setting up a new machine
title: "Onboarding Wizard (CLI)"
sidebarTitle: "Onboarding: CLI"
---

# Onboarding Wizard (CLI)

The onboarding wizard is the **recommended** way to set up OpenSoul on macOS,
Linux, or Windows (via WSL2; strongly recommended).
It configures a local Gateway or a remote Gateway connection, plus channels, skills,
and workspace defaults in one guided flow.

```bash
opensoul onboard
```

<Info>
Fastest first chat: open the Control UI (no channel setup needed). Run
`opensoul dashboard` and chat in the browser. Docs: [Dashboard](/web/dashboard).
</Info>

To reconfigure later:

```bash
opensoul configure
opensoul agents add <name>
```

<Note>
`--json` does not imply non-interactive mode. For scripts, use `--non-interactive`.
</Note>

<Tip>
Recommended: set up a Brave Search API key so the agent can use `web_search`
(`web_fetch` works without a key). Easiest path: `opensoul configure --section web`
which stores `tools.web.search.apiKey`. Docs: [Web tools](/tools/web).
</Tip>

## QuickStart vs Advanced

The wizard starts with **QuickStart** (defaults) vs **Advanced** (full control).

<Tabs>
  <Tab title="QuickStart (defaults)">
    - Local gateway (loopback)
    - Workspace default (or existing workspace)
    - Gateway port **18789**
    - Gateway auth **Token** (auto‑generated, even on loopback)
    - Tailscale exposure **Off**
    - Telegram + WhatsApp DMs default to **allowlist** (you'll be prompted for your phone number)
  </Tab>
  <Tab title="Advanced (full control)">
    - Exposes every step (mode, workspace, gateway, channels, daemon, skills).
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

## What the wizard configures

**Local mode (default)** walks you through these steps:

1. **Model/Auth** — Anthropic API key (recommended), OAuth, OpenAI, or other providers. Pick a default model.
2. **Workspace** — Location for agent files (default `~/.opensoul/workspace`). Seeds bootstrap files.
3. **Gateway** — Port, bind address, auth mode, Tailscale exposure.
4. **Channels** — WhatsApp, Telegram, Discord, Google Chat, Mattermost, Signal, BlueBubbles, or iMessage.
5. **Daemon** — Installs a LaunchAgent (macOS) or systemd user unit (Linux/WSL2).
6. **Health check** — Starts the Gateway and verifies it's running.
7. **Skills** — Installs recommended skills and optional dependencies.

<Note>
Re-running the wizard does **not** wipe anything unless you explicitly choose **Reset** (or pass `--reset`).
If the config is invalid or contains legacy keys, the wizard asks you to run `opensoul doctor` first.
</Note>

**Remote mode** only configures the local client to connect to a Gateway elsewhere.
It does **not** install or change anything on the remote host.

## Add another agent

Use `opensoul agents add <name>` to create a separate agent with its own workspace,
sessions, and auth profiles. Running without `--workspace` launches the wizard.

What it sets:

- `agents.list[].name`
- `agents.list[].workspace`
- `agents.list[].agentDir`

Notes:

- Default workspaces follow `~/.opensoul/workspace-<agentId>`.
- Add `bindings` to route inbound messages (the wizard can do this).
- Non-interactive flags: `--model`, `--agent-dir`, `--bind`, `--non-interactive`.

## Full reference

For detailed step-by-step breakdowns, non-interactive scripting, Signal setup,
RPC API, and a full list of config fields the wizard writes, see the
[Wizard Reference](/reference/wizard).

## Related docs

- CLI command reference: [`opensoul onboard`](/cli/onboard)
- macOS app onboarding: [Onboarding](/start/onboarding)
- Agent first-run ritual: [Agent Bootstrapping](/start/bootstrapping)
