docs/pi-dev.md, before:

---
title: "Pi Development Workflow"
---

# Pi Development Workflow

This guide summarizes a sane workflow for working on the pi integration in OpenClaw.

## Type Checking and Linting

- Type check and build: `pnpm build`
- Lint: `pnpm lint`
- Format check: `pnpm format`
- Full gate before pushing: `pnpm lint && pnpm build && pnpm test`

## Running Pi Tests

Use the dedicated script for the pi integration test set:

```bash
scripts/pi/run-tests.sh
```

To include the live test that exercises real provider behavior:

```bash
scripts/pi/run-tests.sh --live
```

The script runs all pi related unit tests via these globs:

- `src/agents/pi-*.test.ts`
- `src/agents/pi-embedded-*.test.ts`
- `src/agents/pi-tools*.test.ts`
- `src/agents/pi-settings.test.ts`
- `src/agents/pi-tool-definition-adapter.test.ts`
- `src/agents/pi-extensions/*.test.ts`

## Manual Testing

Recommended flow:

- Run the gateway in dev mode:
  - `pnpm gateway:dev`
- Trigger the agent directly:
  - `pnpm openclaw agent --message "Hello" --thinking low`
- Use the TUI for interactive debugging:
  - `pnpm tui`

For tool call behavior, prompt for a `read` or `exec` action so you can see tool streaming and payload handling.

## Clean Slate Reset

State lives under the OpenClaw state directory. Default is `~/.openclaw`. If `OPENCLAW_STATE_DIR` is set, use that directory instead.

To reset everything:

- `openclaw.json` for config
- `credentials/` for auth profiles and tokens
- `agents/<agentId>/sessions/` for agent session history
- `agents/<agentId>/sessions.json` for the session index
- `sessions/` if legacy paths exist
- `workspace/` if you want a blank workspace

If you only want to reset sessions, delete `agents/<agentId>/sessions/` and `agents/<agentId>/sessions.json` for that agent. Keep `credentials/` if you do not want to reauthenticate.

## References

- [https://docs.openclaw.ai/testing](https://docs.openclaw.ai/testing)
- [https://docs.openclaw.ai/start/getting-started](https://docs.openclaw.ai/start/getting-started)

Commit message:

refactor: deep rename openclaw -> opensoul across all source files
- Replace all OPENCLAW_ env vars with OPENSOUL_
- Replace OpenClaw/openclaw with OpenSoul/opensoul in all source files
- Rename openclaw.mjs -> opensoul.mjs (entry point)
- Rename openclaw-root.ts -> opensoul-root.ts (core module)
- Rename openclaw-tools.ts -> opensoul-tools.ts and related test files
- Rename types.openclaw.ts -> types.opensoul.ts
- Rename systemd service files
- Update all config files, docs, scripts, Dockerfiles
- Build verified: tsdown compiles 143 chunks successfully

docs/pi-dev.md, after:

---
title: "Pi Development Workflow"
---

# Pi Development Workflow

This guide summarizes a sane workflow for working on the pi integration in OpenSoul.

## Type Checking and Linting

- Type check and build: `pnpm build`
- Lint: `pnpm lint`
- Format check: `pnpm format`
- Full gate before pushing: `pnpm lint && pnpm build && pnpm test`

## Running Pi Tests

Use the dedicated script for the pi integration test set:

```bash
scripts/pi/run-tests.sh
```

To include the live test that exercises real provider behavior:

```bash
scripts/pi/run-tests.sh --live
```

The script runs all pi related unit tests via these globs:

- `src/agents/pi-*.test.ts`
- `src/agents/pi-embedded-*.test.ts`
- `src/agents/pi-tools*.test.ts`
- `src/agents/pi-settings.test.ts`
- `src/agents/pi-tool-definition-adapter.test.ts`
- `src/agents/pi-extensions/*.test.ts`

## Manual Testing

Recommended flow:

- Run the gateway in dev mode:
  - `pnpm gateway:dev`
- Trigger the agent directly:
  - `pnpm opensoul agent --message "Hello" --thinking low`
- Use the TUI for interactive debugging:
  - `pnpm tui`

For tool call behavior, prompt for a `read` or `exec` action so you can see tool streaming and payload handling.

## Clean Slate Reset

State lives under the OpenSoul state directory. Default is `~/.opensoul`. If `OPENSOUL_STATE_DIR` is set, use that directory instead.

To reset everything:

- `opensoul.json` for config
- `credentials/` for auth profiles and tokens
- `agents/<agentId>/sessions/` for agent session history
- `agents/<agentId>/sessions.json` for the session index
- `sessions/` if legacy paths exist
- `workspace/` if you want a blank workspace

If you only want to reset sessions, delete `agents/<agentId>/sessions/` and `agents/<agentId>/sessions.json` for that agent. Keep `credentials/` if you do not want to reauthenticate.

## References

- [https://docs.opensoul.ai/testing](https://docs.opensoul.ai/testing)
- [https://docs.opensoul.ai/start/getting-started](https://docs.opensoul.ai/start/getting-started)
